# EditMe
As high schoolers navigate their way through college applications, EditMe strives to simplify and destress the college admissions process. EditMe provides a platform in which students are able to have their college essays peer reviewed by other students. In this way, both students improve, giving them a higher change at the college of their dreams.

## Inspiration
Being current high school seniors ourselves, we have experienced first hand the stressfulness of the college admissions process. We recognized that one of the things that helped us most with our college essays was getting them looked at by a second pair of eyes. However, essay review services can get extremely expensive, and its hard to find people to read your essay beyond immediate family. With this in mind, we tried to solve a problem that we had ourselves, and EditMe was the product of it.

## What it Does
EditMe is a platform that allows for students to have their college essay peer reviewed by other students. First, they input their prompt and essay, and request for an edit. After they get matched with another student who has done the same, each student will edit the other's essay. Only when both students have finished editing will the essays be returned back to the original owner, ensuring fairness and security. With the new edits and feedback, the students can revise their essay, and ultimately put their best foot forward in the college admissions process.

## How we built it
We built this website on top of the Python web development framework **Taipy**. Taipy allowed us to create the application in its entirety within Python through simple markup. We found it to be an extremely simple and powerful approach, and it allowed us to speed up and optimize our development process. On top of Taipy's native widgets, we also used Markdown and CSS in order to personalize the look and feel of our website. To power the application, we used **MongoDB Atlas** to store user and essay data, which allowed us to maintain a large amount of data in the cloud. We used this data to match students together for editing. We also used **TinyMCE**'s robust text editor in order to provide the student with a user-friendly experience. In addition to standard text area functionality, we were able to offer formatting options such as bolding, underlining, and italicizing, and these are especially important in a college essay, not only to mimic a true application, but also as such formatting can change the tone and vibe of a piece. Finally, for the purpose of authentication, we used **Auth0**, which opened the door for users to not only sign in with Google, but also only have to sign in once, as the site will recognize the user in the future.

## Challenges we ran into
We ran into the most challenges when implementing the **MongoDB** database. We didn't have experience maintaining NoSQL databases, and the integration of the database with the React application was a little bit tricky, as we didn't want to have a back end running on our computer. At the end though, everything worked out, and we were able to use the database as needed. 

## Accomplishments that we're proud of
We are proud of every part of this project, from the conceptualization to the execution, but perhaps what we are most proud of is our implementation of **Taipy**. We have used Taipy in the past, but, as we were new to it, encountered great difficulty in developing a complex application. Now, with some experience, we feel that we were able to take full advantage of the capabilities Taipy has to offer. Despite it's small stature and limited developer community, we realize the power it provides in being able to develop full stack website applications in a simple manner using Python, and we see ourselves using this robust technology in the future as well.

## What we learned
Creating this project was nothing short of a journey for our team, and we know for sure that it has given us much knowledge to take with us in the future. For one, we learned how to effectively collaborate using Git and **Github**. We each worked in separate branches, and at the end, we merged in order to have a finished project. We communicated well throughout the entire development experience, which led to minimal merge conflicts. We also learned a great deal about website development through **Taipy**, and database management with **MongoDB**.

## What's next for EditMe
In the future, we would like to expand the capabilities of EditMe, and allow the user to store multiple essays on the platform and do multiple edits concurrently. In addition, we would also like to explore the possibility of adding other parts of the college application, such as the activities and the awards list, as students could benefit from feedback on those too. We strive to simplify admissions, and plan to do anything possible to achieve that goal. 